LED question:

$V = k\lambda^n$ 


1) 


Variables

Constant variables: The e.m.f of the D.C. power supply, the distance c of the LED from the diffraction grating, the distance D from the diffraction grating the screen behind it and the spacing of the diffraction grating a. 

Dependent variables: The potential difference across the LED at its threshold voltage

Independent variables: The wavelength of light emitted by the LED

Procedure:


- Measure or check the diffraction grating spacing a.
- Place the setup in a dark room with lights turned off.
- Next, place the diffraction grating a distance c from the LED and the screen a distance D behind the diffraction grating. Keep the distances constant by using a clamp. Measure the distance D using a ruler and record.
- Next, adjust the resistance on the variable resistor until the LED lights up.
- When the LED lights up, record the voltage reading on the voltmeter. 
- In addition, record the fringe spacing x between the 0th order central bright spot and the first order bright spot using a ruler. 
- Repeat 3 times per LED lamp and average out the values for both the fringe spacing x and the potential difference V.
- Swap out the LED lamp with another LED and repeat the procedure 6 times.
- For each LED, record the averaged values for fringe spacing x and potential difference V into a table.


Analysis:

- To calculate lambda, use the formula $\lambda = \frac {ax}{D}$ where a is the spacing between the lines on the grating, x is the measured fringe spacing, D is the measured distance between the diffraction grating and the screen. Record down the calculated value for $\lambda$ for each value for fringe spacing x.
- $lnV = ln(k) + n ln(\lambda)$
- Calculate values for $\ln(V)$ and $ln(\lambda)$ for each LED and record it in a table.
- Plot a graph of $\ln(V)$ on the y axis and $\ln \lambda$ on the  x axis. n is equal to the gradient of the line and $\ln(
